people with albinism have little to no
melanin
the pigment that colors hair skin and
eyes it's a rare condition to have
in the usa just one in eighteen thousand
to twenty thousand people
is albino but ocular albinism
is even more unique experts don't know
exact numbers
but they think only one out of 50 000
individuals has it
if a person has ocular albinism nothing
but their eyes gets affected
their skin and hair might be a bit
lighter than those of their family
members
but the difference isn't that big bright
sunlight makes 17 to 35 percent of
people sneeze
this phenomenon is called the photic
sneeze reflex
in the greek language is called sun
sneezing
it happens when the nervous system
misfires when it happens
one of the nerves might get the reflexes
wrong and then
bright sunlight not only makes your
pupils contract but also activates the
nose membranes
when natural fair hair is rare in adults
it almost always darkens with age people
who are more likely to keep their hair
color light
are those living in the north the bajau
is a group of nomadic people that live
in the waters around the philippines
indonesia
and malaysia thanks to a rare dna
mutation
they can stay underwater for up to 13
minutes
the bajau people have evolved spleens
that are way larger than average
this feature provides them with a
genetic advantage
see nomads needed to hunt for fish or
look for underwater stuff that can be
used in crafts
a particular gene mutation results in
super dense bones
that are almost impossible to break
they're several times tougher than the
average person's bones
these people's skin is also less prone
to aging
it might sound cool but there are
drawbacks when such tough
bones grow they often put too much
pressure on the nerve surrounding them
and the brain there are three kinds of
cone cells in the average person's eyes
they help to recognize the colors in the
blue red and green spectrums
thanks to them most people can
distinguish around one million different
shades
but those with tetrachromacy have four
cones in their eyes
this feature allows them to see up to
100 million different hues
however rare this vision anomaly is it's
still
much more common in women than in men by
the way
most people with tetrachromacy don't
realize they see the world
brighter than others only a bit more
than eight percent of people
have counterclockwise hair whirls on
their heads
a hair whirl can be single or double
very few people have triple worlds
but those do exist not all experts agree
with this theory
but some researchers claim there's a
connection between
handedness and the direction of a hair
world
left-handed people are five times more
likely to have a counterclockwise world
than those with the dominant right hand
only one to five people in every ten
thousand have an unusually shaped pupil
in most cases it looks a bit like a
keyhole or a cat's eye
this eye disorder is called iris
kolobama
scientists believe it's mostly genetic
in origin
super tasters are people who taste
particular flavors more strongly than
others
they have more taste buds those are
small mushroom-shaped bumps littering
the tongue
they're covered with taste receptors
that tell your brain what you're eating
this feature also makes super tasters
more sensitive to certain foods
for example too sweet bitter or salty
they also have more pain receptors on
their tongues that's why such people
avoid spicy food the numbers vary around
the world
but in general 25 to 30 percent of
people
are super tasters from 40 to 50 percent
are average tasters and 25 to 30 percent
are non-tasters
those have poor taste perception less
than one percent of the world's
population
has a rare condition called dextrocardia
that's when the heart points toward the
right side of the chest
not the left one in rare cases people
with this unique quality
have all their internal organs on the
mirror image side of the body
only one to five people in ten thousand
have what's called
perfect or absolute pitch it's the
ability to identify and recreate musical
tones
this feature often runs in families it's
also
more likely to occur in people who
started their musical training before
they turned six
ancient greeks had stories about
fire-breathing creatures called chimeras
they were a fearsome mixture of a goat
lion and snake
in real life chimeras are people who
have two different sets of dna
scientists have recorded no more than
100 cases
of human chimerism the dec2g
mutation allows people to get away with
just a few hours of sleep a night
and still feel great such short sleepers
don't feel tired
and they never sleep in their usual wake
up time is four or
five am wow not me only up to five
percent of people have this feature
scientists from the university of
california have also made an interesting
discovery
they claim that people with a dec2
mutation
need less time to perform certain tasks
than regular sleepers
morton's toe is a foot structure where
the second toe is longer than the first
one
only three to 22 percent of people in
the world have their feet
shaped this way michelangelo's david and
the statue of liberty are among them
unlike the majority of the world's
population one and a half percent of
people have just one
palmar creates that's the line running
across your palm
men are more likely to have a single
palmar crease than women
most often this feature runs in families
only three percent of people in the
world have lines that form the letters
x on both of their palms in many
cultures
this rare feature is believed to be a
sign of a strong
personality one in every 500 people
has an extra rib called cervical the
average human has
two dozen ribs 12 on each side of the
body
but those lucky ones can have 25 or even
26. excessive ribs are more often found
in women
they're located in the cervical spine
area and grow just above the collarbones
their size can be different from just
barely developed
to fully grown ones in most cases
cervical ribs don't affect a person's
well-being
unless they grow too large in this case
they do
cause discomfort no more than 50 people
have ever had rh null blood type so
precious that it was nicknamed
golden blood it can be donated to people
who have incredibly rare blood types
and can accept any other for the first
time
golden blood was discovered in an
australian aboriginal woman
if you have a tiny hole near your ear
you're unique
it occurs in only five percent of people
in the world
in the usa less than one percent of
people are born with this hole
in asia and some parts of africa the
number is a bit higher
from four to ten 10 this feature is
often
inherited genetically it can be present
on one
or both ears this distribution is 50 50.
the hole may go all the way through or
it can be a dimple
dent or even a small lump there's a
theory
that the little hole is an activism left
from the times when all living beings
had gills
there's a gene mutation that helps
people keep their bad cholesterol levels
extremely low
in this case the gene instructs the body
to produce a protein
that curbs the amount of cholesterol in
the blood unfortunately
only two to three percent of people have
this useful ability
about 65 percent of the world's
population have
loop-shaped fingerprints another thirty
percent of fingerprints are whirl shaped
and only five percent of people have
heart-shaped fingerprints
they can be plain or tinted arches
around 35 of the world's population
don't have to worry about the pain and
inconvenience of wisdom teeth
breaking through the gums simply because
they don't have them
but around 5 million not so lucky people
go through wisdom teeth removal every
year
some people have more than one row of
eyelashes this phenomenon
is a genetic mutation called dystociasis
a person with this condition has a
second set of eyelashes
growing behind the first all these thick
lush lashes sure look beautiful but they
can also cause some discomfort
some hairs can start growing in the
wrong direction or in the place where an
oil gland is supposed to be it can cause
irritation and tearing
experts are sure that tibetan people
have genetically changed to be able to
live at high altitudes
they have a gene that helps to adapt to
falling oxygen levels
amazingly fast this evolutionary
mutation
has been one of the fastest ever
recorded in people
it took a mere 3000 years to develop